www/docs/client/index.mdx, before:

---
title: DrupalClient
excerpt: A flexible JSON:API client to fetching Drupal data.
---

<Callout icon="⚠️">

The `DrupalClient` is available in `next-drupal ^1.3.0` as **experimental**.

</Callout>

The `DrupalClient` is a powerful JSON:API client that ships with helpers for fetching Drupal data and building pages.

It is a replacement for functional helpers such as `getResource`, `getResourceCollection` ...etc.

## Features

1. Customizable JSON:API client for data fetching.
2. Helpers to fetching resources, menus, views and search indices.
3. Support for custom auth (`Bearer`, `Basic` or bring your own).
4. Support for custom serializers.
5. Support for custom fetcher.
6. Support for cached resources (memory cache, redis...etc).
7. Improved error messages.

## Usage

```ts
import { Experimental_DrupalClient as DrupalClient } from "next-drupal"

const drupal = new DrupalClient("https://example.com")

// Fetch articles.
const articles = await drupal.getResourceCollection("node--article")
```

<Callout icon="👉">

See the guide [here](/docs/client/upgrade) to upgrade your site to use the new `DrupalClient`.

</Callout>

Commit message:

docs(www): add upgrade guide

www/docs/client/index.mdx, after:

---
title: DrupalClient
excerpt: A powerful client to fetching Drupal JSON:API data.
---

<Callout icon="⚠️">

The `DrupalClient` is available in `next-drupal ^1.3.0` as **experimental**.

The `DrupalClient` is an optional feature. You can safely upgrade your site to `next-drupal 1.3.0` without any breaking changes.

</Callout>

The `DrupalClient` is a powerful JSON:API client that ships with helpers for fetching Drupal data and building pages.

It is a replacement for functional helpers such as `getResource`, `getResourceCollection` ...etc.

## Features

1. Customizable JSON:API client for data fetching.
2. Helpers to fetching resources, menus, views and search indices.
3. Support for custom auth (`Bearer`, `Basic` or bring your own).
4. Support for custom serializers.
5. Support for custom fetcher.
6. Support for cached resources (memory cache, redis...etc).
7. Improved error messages.

## Usage

```ts
import { Experimental_DrupalClient as DrupalClient } from "next-drupal"

const drupal = new DrupalClient("https://example.com")

// Fetch articles.
const articles = await drupal.getResourceCollection("node--article")
```

<Callout icon="👉">

See the guide [here](/docs/client/upgrade) to upgrade your site to use the new `DrupalClient`.

</Callout>
