www/docs/client/upgrade.mdx, before:

---
title: Upgrade Guide
excerpt: Guide for upgrading your site to use DrupalClient.
---

<Callout icon="⚠️">

The `DrupalClient` is available in `next-drupal ^1.3.0` as **experimental**.

The `DrupalClient` is an optional feature. You can safely upgrade your site to `next-drupal 1.3.0` without any breaking changes.

</Callout>

1. Create a new `DrupalClient` in `lib/drupal.ts`

```ts title=lib/drupal.ts
import { Experiment_DrupalClient as DrupalClient } from "next-drupal"

export const drupal = new DrupalClient(
  process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_DRUPAL_BASE_URL,
  {
    frontPage: process.env.DRUPAL_FRONT_PAGE,
    previewSecret: process.env.DRUPAL_PREVIEW_SECRET,
    auth: {
      clientId: process.env.DRUPAL_CLIENT_ID,
      clientSecret: process.env.DRUPAL_CLIENT_SECRET,
    },
  }
)
```

2. Update helpers to use the `drupal` client.

```diff
+ import { drupal } from "lib/drupal"


- await getPathsFromContext()
+ await drupal.getStaticPathsFromContext


- await translatePathFromContext()
+ await drupal.translatePathFromContext()


- await getResourceFromContext()
+ await drupal.getResourceFromContext()
```

3. Replace `pages/api/preview.ts` with the following:

```diff
- import { DrupalPreview } from "next-drupal"
-
- export default DrupalPreview()

+ import { drupal } from "lib/drupal"
+
+ export default async function (request, response) {
+  return drupal.preview(request, response)
+ }
```

Commit message:

feat(www): update docs for upgrade guide

www/docs/client/upgrade.mdx, after:

---
title: Upgrade Guide
excerpt: Guide for upgrading your site to use DrupalClient.
---

<Callout icon="⚠️">

The `DrupalClient` is available in `next-drupal ^1.3.0` as **experimental**.

The `DrupalClient` is an optional feature. You can safely upgrade your site to `next-drupal 1.3.0` without any breaking changes.

</Callout>

1. Upgrade to `next-drupal 1.3.0`:

```sh
yarn add next-drupal@latest
```

2. Create a new `DrupalClient` in `lib/drupal.ts`

```ts title=lib/drupal.ts
import { Experiment_DrupalClient as DrupalClient } from "next-drupal"

export const drupal = new DrupalClient(
  process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_DRUPAL_BASE_URL,
  {
    frontPage: process.env.DRUPAL_FRONT_PAGE,
    previewSecret: process.env.DRUPAL_PREVIEW_SECRET,
    auth: {
      clientId: process.env.DRUPAL_CLIENT_ID,
      clientSecret: process.env.DRUPAL_CLIENT_SECRET,
    },
  }
)
```

3. Update helpers to use the `drupal` client.

```diff
+ import { drupal } from "lib/drupal"


- await getPathsFromContext()
+ await drupal.getStaticPathsFromContext


- await translatePathFromContext()
+ await drupal.translatePathFromContext()


- await getResourceFromContext()
+ await drupal.getResourceFromContext()
```

4. Replace `pages/api/preview.ts` with the following:

```diff
- import { DrupalPreview } from "next-drupal"
-
- export default DrupalPreview()

+ import { drupal } from "lib/drupal"
+
+ export default async function (request, response) {
+  return drupal.preview(request, response)
+ }
```

5. On the Drupal site, visit `/admin/people/permissions/anonymous` and assign the **Issue subrequests** permission to the **Anonymous user** role: <br /><br />
   We do this because during the build phase, most of the requests for pages are anonymous requests. By assigning this permission, you can significantly decrease your site's build time. <br /><br />
   If you would rather keep requests authenticated, you can use the [`withAuth`](/docs/client/configuration#withauth) options.

6. Done. You are now ready to run your site using the new `DrupalClient`.

Thanks for testing out our 1.3 release. If you see any bugs during the upgrade, feel free to create an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/chapter-three/next-drupal).
