www/tutorials/quick-start/create-nexts-project.mdx, before:

---
title: Create Next.js project
excerpt: Create a new Next.js project using the starter
weight: 8
group: Quick Start
video: /videos/quick-start/08-create-nextjs-project.mp4
---

Now that we have completed the Drupal configuration, we can create our Next.js project.

We are going to use the [basic starter](https://github.com/chapter-three/next-drupal/tree/master/starters/basic-starter).

## Create Project

Run the following command to create a new Next.js project:

```sh
npx create-next-app -e https://github.com/chapter-three/next-drupal-basic-starter
```

## Connect Drupal

To connect the Next.js project to Drupal, we use [environment variables](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/environment-variables).

1. Copy `.env.example` to `.env.local`.
2. On the **Drupal site**, visit _/admin/config/services/next_.
3. Click **Environment variables**.
4. Copy and paste the values into the `.env.local` file created above.

_Remember to fill in the `DRUPAL_CLIENT_ID` and the `DRUPAL_CLIENT_SECRET`._

## Start Development Server

To start the Next.js development server, run `npm run dev` or `yarn dev`. This starts the development server on `http://localhost:3000`.

Visit [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view the site.

Commit message:

docs(www): update quick start guide for client starter

www/tutorials/quick-start/create-nexts-project.mdx, after:

---
title: Create Next.js project
excerpt: Create a new Next.js project using the starter
weight: 8
group: Quick Start
video: /videos/quick-start/08-create-nextjs-project.mp4
---

Now that we have completed the Drupal configuration, we can create our Next.js project.

We are going to use the [basic starter](https://github.com/chapter-three/next-drupal/tree/master/starters/basic-starter).

## Create Project

Run the following command to create a new Next.js project:

### Using Basic Starter

```sh
npx create-next-app -e https://github.com/chapter-three/next-drupal-basic-starter
```

### Using Basic Starter with DrupalClient

If you would like to use the new [`DrupalClient`](/docs/client), use the following command instead:

```sh
npx create-next-app -e https://github.com/chapter-three/next-drupal-basic-starter-client
```

## Connect Drupal

To connect the Next.js project to Drupal, we use [environment variables](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/environment-variables).

1. Copy `.env.example` to `.env.local`.
2. On the **Drupal site**, visit _/admin/config/services/next_.
3. Click **Environment variables**.
4. Copy and paste the values into the `.env.local` file created above.

_Remember to fill in the `DRUPAL_CLIENT_ID` and the `DRUPAL_CLIENT_SECRET`._

## Start Development Server

To start the Next.js development server, run `npm run dev` or `yarn dev`. This starts the development server on `http://localhost:3000`.

Visit [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view the site.
