www/docs/quick-start.mdx, before:

---
title: How to decouple Drupal with Next.js and JSON:API
excerpt: A step by step guide to build a Next.js site with Drupal content and preview mode.
---

<Callout icon="👉">

We created a step by step video guide to help you get started with Next.js for Drupal. <Link href="/learn/quick-start" passHref><a>Check it out</a></Link>.

</Callout>

Here is the list of tasks we will accomplish in this guide:

1. Install and configure the Next.js module for Drupal
2. Configure preview mode
3. Create a Next.js site using `create-next-app`
4. Connect the Next.js site to Drupal for content

## Drupal

### 1. Install Drupal

Start by creating a new Drupal site using composer:

```sh
composer create-project drupal/recommended-project drupal-site
```

Once this is done, you can open the site and proceed with installation.

### 2. Add Next.js module

Run the following command to install the [Next.js](https://drupal.org/project/next) module and dependencies.

```sh
composer require drupal/next:1.0.x-dev
```

Note: we are pulling the latest dev version since there are no stable releases at this moment.

### 3. Enable Next.js

Visit `/admin/modules` and enable the **Next.js** and **Next.js JSON API** modules.

### 4. Create Site

Once the modules are enabled, we can now create our first Next.js site.

1. Visit _/admin/config/services/next_
2. Click **Add Next.js site**
3. Fill in the following values:

- **Label**: `Blog`
- **Base URL**: `http://localhost:3000`
- **Preview URL**: `http://localhost:3000/api/preview`
- **Preview Secret**: `preview-secret-here`

4. Click **Save**

<Img
  src="/images/next-drupal-add-site.jpg"
  width="600"
  height="390"
  layout="responsive"
  mb="10"
/>

You have created your first Next.js site.

### 5. Configure Path Aliases

The `next-drupal` plugin uses paths to resolve resources for `getStaticProps`. To make this work, we need to configure path aliases for our content types.

Let's add a pattern for the **Article** content type.

1. Visit _/admin/config/search/path/patterns/add_.
2. Fill in the following values:

- **Pattern type**: `Content`
- **Path pattern**: `blog/[node:title]`
- **Content type**: `Article`
- **Label**: `Article`

3. Click **Save**

<Img
  src="/images/next-drupal-pathauto.jpg"
  width="600"
  height="390"
  layout="responsive"
  mb="10"
/>

### 6. Preview Mode

The Next.js module, paired with the `next-drupal` plugin, makes it easy to create [Next.js preview routes](https://nextjs.org/docs/advanced-features/preview-mode).

To configure preview mode for an entity type, you must configure:

1. An **OAuth Consumer**.
2. A **site resolver** for the entity type

#### 6.1 OAuth Consumer

##### Create Role

1. Create a new Drupal role (example `Next blog`) by visiting _/admin/people/roles/add_
2. Give the role the following permissions:

- Bypass content access control
- Issue subrequests
- View user information

<Callout>

We are assigning the _Bypass content access control_ permission to allow Next.js to access unpublished entites and their revisions.

You can safely skip this permission if you do not need to preview unpublished content.

</Callout>

##### Create User

Add a new user at `/admin/people/create` and assign it the role we created above.

##### Create Consumer

1. Visit _/admin/config/people/simple_oauth_
2. Click **Generate keys** to generate encryption keys for tokens
3. Visit _/admin/config/services/consumer/add_
4. Fill in a **Label**, **User** (select the user created above), **Secret** and under **Scopes**, select the role created above.
5. Click **Save**

_Important: note the client id (uuid) and the secret. This is going to be used as environment variables for the Next.js site._

#### 6.2 Site Resolver

A _site resolver_ tells Drupal how to resolve the preview URL for an entity.

For our site, we are going to configure a resolver for the **Article** content type.

1. Visit _/admin/config/services/next/entity-types_
2. Click **Configure entity type**
3. Select **Article** from the the entity type list
4. Select **Site selector** as the **Site resolver**
5. Select **Blog** under **Next.js sites**
6. Click **Save**

<Img
  src="/images/next-drupal-entity-type.jpg"
  width="600"
  height="390"
  layout="responsive"
  mb="10"
/>

## Next.js

Now that we have completed the Drupal configuration, we can create our Next.js site.

We are going to use the [basic starter](https://github.com/chapter-three/next-drupal/tree/master/starters/basic-starter).

### 1. Create Site

Run the following command to create a new Next.js site:

```sh
npx create-next-app -e https://github.com/chapter-three/next-drupal-basic-starter
```

### 2. Connect Drupal

To connect the Next.js site to Drupal, we use [environment variables](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/environment-variables).

1. Copy `.env.example` to `.env.local`.
2. On the **Drupal site**, visit `admin/config/services/next`.
3. Click **Environment variables**.
4. Copy and paste the values into the `.env.local` file created above.

**Remember to fill in the `DRUPAL_CLIENT_ID` and the `DRUPAL_CLIENT_SECRET`.**

### 3. Run Site

To start the Next.js site, run `npm run dev` or `yarn dev`. This starts the development server on `http://localhost:3000`.

Visit [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view the site.

## Create Content

You can now add a new article on your Drupal site and refresh your Next.js site to see the published article.

If preview mode has been configured correctly, you should also see an iframe preview when you visit the article in the Drupal admin.

<Callout>

👉 **Hint:** Since we're not using the Drupal front end theme, set **Claro** or **Seven** as the default theme for a cleaner preview UI.

</Callout>

## Need help?

We understand there's more than a few steps to properly configure preview mode.

It is built this way for flexibility. With the current setup, you can easily configure one Drupal backend and serve multiple Next.js sites (content hub).

You maintain control on which content is pushed to which sites and how.

If you need help, feel free to create an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/chapter-three/next-drupal).

You can also reach out on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/shadcn).

Commit message:

docs(www): update quick start guide for client starter

www/docs/quick-start.mdx, after:

---
title: How to decouple Drupal with Next.js and JSON:API
excerpt: A step by step guide to build a Next.js site with Drupal content and preview mode.
---

<Callout icon="👉">

We created a step by step video guide to help you get started with Next.js for Drupal. <Link href="/learn/quick-start" passHref><a>Check it out</a></Link>.

</Callout>

Here is the list of tasks we will accomplish in this guide:

1. Install and configure the Next.js module for Drupal
2. Configure preview mode
3. Create a Next.js site using `create-next-app`
4. Connect the Next.js site to Drupal for content

## Drupal

### 1. Install Drupal

Start by creating a new Drupal site using composer:

```sh
composer create-project drupal/recommended-project drupal-site
```

Once this is done, you can open the site and proceed with installation.

### 2. Add Next.js module

Run the following command to install the [Next.js](https://drupal.org/project/next) module and dependencies.

```sh
composer require drupal/next
```

### 3. Enable Next.js

Visit `/admin/modules` and enable the **Next.js** and **Next.js JSON API** modules.

### 4. Create Site

Once the modules are enabled, we can now create our first Next.js site.

1. Visit _/admin/config/services/next_
2. Click **Add Next.js site**
3. Fill in the following values:

- **Label**: `Blog`
- **Base URL**: `http://localhost:3000`
- **Preview URL**: `http://localhost:3000/api/preview`
- **Preview Secret**: `preview-secret-here`

4. Click **Save**

<Img
  src="/images/next-drupal-add-site.jpg"
  width="600"
  height="390"
  layout="responsive"
  mb="10"
/>

You have created your first Next.js site.

### 5. Configure Path Aliases

The `next-drupal` plugin uses paths to resolve resources for `getStaticProps`. To make this work, we need to configure path aliases for our content types.

Let's add a pattern for the **Article** content type.

1. Visit _/admin/config/search/path/patterns/add_.
2. Fill in the following values:

- **Pattern type**: `Content`
- **Path pattern**: `blog/[node:title]`
- **Content type**: `Article`
- **Label**: `Article`

3. Click **Save**

<Img
  src="/images/next-drupal-pathauto.jpg"
  width="600"
  height="390"
  layout="responsive"
  mb="10"
/>

### 6. Preview Mode

The Next.js module, paired with the `next-drupal` plugin, makes it easy to create [Next.js preview routes](https://nextjs.org/docs/advanced-features/preview-mode).

To configure preview mode for an entity type, you must configure:

1. An **OAuth Consumer**.
2. A **site resolver** for the entity type

#### 6.1 OAuth Consumer

##### Create Role

1. Create a new Drupal role (example `Next blog`) by visiting _/admin/people/roles/add_
2. Give the role the following permissions:

- Bypass content access control
- Issue subrequests
- View user information

<Callout>

We are assigning the _Bypass content access control_ permission to allow Next.js to access unpublished entites and their revisions.

You can safely skip this permission if you do not need to preview unpublished content.

</Callout>

##### Create User

Add a new user at `/admin/people/create` and assign it the role we created above.

##### Create Consumer

1. Visit _/admin/config/people/simple_oauth_
2. Click **Generate keys** to generate encryption keys for tokens
3. Visit _/admin/config/services/consumer/add_
4. Fill in a **Label**, **User** (select the user created above), **Secret** and under **Scopes**, select the role created above.
5. Click **Save**

_Important: note the client id (uuid) and the secret. This is going to be used as environment variables for the Next.js site._

#### 6.2 Site Resolver

A _site resolver_ tells Drupal how to resolve the preview URL for an entity.

For our site, we are going to configure a resolver for the **Article** content type.

1. Visit _/admin/config/services/next/entity-types_
2. Click **Configure entity type**
3. Select **Article** from the the entity type list
4. Select **Site selector** as the **Site resolver**
5. Select **Blog** under **Next.js sites**
6. Click **Save**

<Img
  src="/images/next-drupal-entity-type.jpg"
  width="600"
  height="390"
  layout="responsive"
  mb="10"
/>

## Next.js

Now that we have completed the Drupal configuration, we can create our Next.js site.

We are going to use the [basic starter](https://github.com/chapter-three/next-drupal/tree/master/starters/basic-starter).

### 1. Create Site

Run the following command to create a new Next.js site:

#### Using Basic Starter

```sh
npx create-next-app -e https://github.com/chapter-three/next-drupal-basic-starter
```

#### Using Basic Starter with DrupalClient

If you would like to use the new [`DrupalClient`](/docs/client), use the following command instead:

```sh
npx create-next-app -e https://github.com/chapter-three/next-drupal-basic-starter-client
```

### 2. Connect Drupal

To connect the Next.js site to Drupal, we use [environment variables](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/environment-variables).

1. Copy `.env.example` to `.env.local`.
2. On the **Drupal site**, visit `admin/config/services/next`.
3. Click **Environment variables**.
4. Copy and paste the values into the `.env.local` file created above.

**Remember to fill in the `DRUPAL_CLIENT_ID` and the `DRUPAL_CLIENT_SECRET`.**

### 3. Run Site

To start the Next.js site, run `npm run dev` or `yarn dev`. This starts the development server on `http://localhost:3000`.

Visit [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view the site.

## Create Content

You can now add a new article on your Drupal site and refresh your Next.js site to see the published article.

If preview mode has been configured correctly, you should also see an iframe preview when you visit the article in the Drupal admin.

<Callout>

👉 **Hint:** Since we're not using the Drupal front end theme, set **Claro** or **Seven** as the default theme for a cleaner preview UI.

</Callout>

## Need help?

We understand there's more than a few steps to properly configure preview mode.

It is built this way for flexibility. With the current setup, you can easily configure one Drupal backend and serve multiple Next.js sites (content hub).

You maintain control on which content is pushed to which sites and how.

If you need help, feel free to create an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/chapter-three/next-drupal).

You can also reach out on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/shadcn).
