www/content/docs/reference/getentryforresourcetype.mdx, before:

---
title: getEntryForResourceType
excerpt: Get the JSON:API entry for a resource type.
---

```ts
const url = await drupal.getEntryForResourceType(type, locale?): Promise<string>
```

- `type: string`
  - **Required**
  - The resource type. Example: `node--article`.
- `locale: string`
  - Optional
  - The locale to fetch the index. Example: `es` or `fr`.

---

## Notes

By default, when retrieving resources in `getResource` or `getResourceCollection`, the `DrupalClient` make a request to Drupal to fetch the JSON:API resource entry..

Example: if you provide `node--article`, `DrupalClient` will make a request to `http://example.com/jsonapi/node/article`.

If you would like to infer the entry from the resource type, use the [`useDefaultResourceTypeEntry`](/docs/configuration#usedefaultresourcetypeentry) option.

```ts
const drupal = new DrupalClient(process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_DRUPAL_BASE_URL, {
  useDefaultResourceTypeEntry: true,
})
```

---

## Examples

```ts
// https://example.com/jsonapi/node/article.
const url = await drupal.getEntryForResourceType(`node--article`)
```

Commit message:

docs(next-drupal): updated docs (#787)
Co-authored-by: Marco Monti <marco@easytech.com.ar>
Co-authored-by: Brian Perry <contact.brianperry@gmail.com>

www/content/docs/reference/getentryforresourcetype.mdx, after:

---
title: getEntryForResourceType
excerpt: Get the JSON:API entry for a resource type.
---

```ts
const url = await drupal.getEntryForResourceType(type, locale?): Promise<string>
```

- `type: string`
  - **Required**
  - The resource type. Example: `node--article`.
- `locale: string`
  - Optional
  - The locale to fetch the index. Example: `es` or `fr`.

---

## Notes

By default, when retrieving resources in `getResource` or `getResourceCollection`, the `NextDrupalPages` make a request to Drupal to fetch the JSON:API resource entry..

Example: if you provide `node--article`, `NextDrupalPages` will make a request to `http://example.com/jsonapi/node/article`.

If you would like to infer the entry from the resource type, use the [`useDefaultResourceTypeEntry`](/docs/configuration#usedefaultresourcetypeentry) option.

```ts
const drupal = new NextDrupalPages(process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_DRUPAL_BASE_URL, {
  useDefaultResourceTypeEntry: true,
})
```

---

## Examples

```ts
// https://example.com/jsonapi/node/article.
const url = await drupal.getEntryForResourceType(`node--article`)
```
