www/content/docs/reference/getmenu.mdx, before:

---
title: getMenu
excerpt: Fetch a menu from Drupal.
---

<Callout icon="⚠️">

You need to install the [JSON:API Menu Items](https://www.drupal.org/project/jsonapi_menu_items) module to use `getMenu`.

</Callout>

```ts
const resource = await drupal.getResource<T = DrupalMenuLinkContent>(
  name,
  options?: {
    params,
    withAuth,
    deserialize,
    locale,
    defaultLocale,
	withCache
  }
): Promise<{
	items: T[]
	tree: T[]
}>
```

- `name: string`
  - **Required**
  - The name of the menu. Example: `main` or `footer`.
- `options`
  - Optional
  - `params: JsonApiParams`: JSON:API params such as `filter`, `fields`, `include` or `sort`.
  - `withAuth: boolean | DrupalClientAuth`:
    - Set the authentication method to use. See the [authentication docs](/docs/authentication).
    - Set to `true` to use the authentication method configured on the client.
  - `deserialize: boolean`: Set to false to return the raw JSON:API response.
  - `locale: string`: The locale to fetch the resource in.
  - `defaultLocale: string`: The default locale of the site.
  - `withCache: boolean`: Set `withCache` if you want to store and retrieve the menu from cache.
  - `cacheKey: string`: The cache key to use.

---

## Notes

- `getMenu` returns:
  - `items`: An array of `DrupalMenuLinkContent`.
  - `tree`: An array of `DrupalMenuLinkContent` with children nested to match the hierarchy from Drupal.

---

## Examples

- Get the `main` menu.

```ts
const { menu, items } = await drupal.getMenu("main")
```

- Get the `main` menu using cache.

```ts
const menu = await drupal.getMenu("main", {
  withCache: true,
  cacheKey: "menu--main",
})
```

Commit message:

docs(next-drupal): updated docs

www/content/docs/reference/getmenu.mdx, after:

---
title: getMenu
excerpt: Fetch a menu from Drupal.
---

<Callout icon="⚠️">

You need to install the [JSON:API Menu Items](https://www.drupal.org/project/jsonapi_menu_items) module to use `getMenu`.

</Callout>

```ts
const resource = await drupal.getMenu<T = DrupalMenuItem>(
  menuName,
  options?: {
    params,
    withAuth,
    deserialize,
    locale,
    defaultLocale,
	withCache,
    cacheKey,
    next
  }
): Promise<{
	items: T[]
	tree: T[]
}>
```

- `menuName: string`
  - **Required**
  - The name of the menu. Example: `main` or `footer`.
- `options`
  - Optional
  - `params: JsonApiParams`: JSON:API params such as `filter`, `fields`, `include` or `sort`.
  - `withAuth: boolean | NextDrupalAuth`:
    - Set the authentication method to use. See the [authentication docs](/docs/authentication).
    - Set to `true` to use the authentication method configured on the client.
  - `deserialize: boolean`: Set to false to return the raw JSON:API response.
  - `locale: string`: The locale to fetch the resource in.
  - `defaultLocale: string`: The default locale of the site.
  - `withCache: boolean`: Set `withCache` if you want to store and retrieve the menu from cache.
  - `cacheKey: string`: The cache key to use.
  - `next: NextFetchRequestConfig`
    - Set the `revalidate` option in seconds to configure [Time-based revalidation](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/fetching-caching-and-revalidating#time-based-revalidation).  
      Ex: `next: { revalidate: 3600 } // revalidate resource every hour`
    - Set the `tags` option to confiure [Tag-based On demand revalidation](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/fetching-caching-and-revalidating#on-demand-revalidation).  
      Ex: `next: { tags: ['resource-tag'] }`

---

## Notes

- `getMenu` returns:
  - `items`: An array of `DrupalMenuItem`.
  - `tree`: An array of `DrupalMenuItem` with children nested to match the hierarchy from Drupal.

---

## Examples

- Get the `main` menu.

```ts
const { menu, items } = await drupal.getMenu("main")
```

- Get the `main` menu using cache.

```ts
const menu = await drupal.getMenu("main", {
  withCache: true,
  cacheKey: "menu--main",
})
```

<!--
************************************************************
*  TODO: Remove this block before publishing.

*  Comment: Don't know how this cache works with Nextjs caching system
************************************************************
-->

- Get the `main` menu with tag-based revalidation.

```ts
const menu = await drupal.getMenu("main", {
  next: { tags: ["main--menu"] }, // revalidates resource when calling `revalidateTag('main--menu')`
})
```
