www/content/docs/reference/getsearch.mdx, before:

---
title: getSearchIndex
excerpt: Fetch a Search API index.
---

<Callout icon="⚠️">

You need to install the [JSON:API Search API](https://www.drupal.org/project/jsonapi_search_api) module to use `getSearchIndex`.

</Callout>

```ts
const resources = await drupal.getSearchIndex<T = JsonApiResource[]>(
  name,
  options?: {
    params,
    withAuth,
    deserialize,
    locale,
    defaultLocale,
  }
): Promise<T>
```

- `name: string`
  - **Required**
  - The name of the search index.
- `options`
  - Optional
  - `params: JsonApiParams`: JSON:API params such as `filter`, `fields`, `include` or `sort`.
  - `withAuth: boolean | DrupalClientAuth`:
    - Set the authentication method to use. See the [authentication docs](/docs/authentication).
    - Set to `true` to use the authentication method configured on the client.
  - `deserialize: boolean`: Set to false to return the raw JSON:API response.
  - `locale: string`: The locale to fetch the view in.
  - `defaultLocale: string`: The default locale of the site.

---

## Examples

- Get search results from an index named `articles`.

```ts
const results = await drupal.getSearchIndex("articles")
```

---

## TypeScript

- Using `DrupalNode` for a node entity type.

```ts
import { DrupalNode } from "next-drupal"

const results = await drupal.getSearchIndex<DrupalNode>("articles")
```

See the [TypeScript docs](/docs/typescript) for more built-in types.

Commit message:

docs(next-drupal): updated docs

www/content/docs/reference/getsearch.mdx, after:

---
title: getSearchIndex
excerpt: Fetch a Search API index.
---

<Callout icon="⚠️">

You need to install the [JSON:API Search API](https://www.drupal.org/project/jsonapi_search_api) module to use `getSearchIndex`.

</Callout>

```ts
const resources = await drupal.getSearchIndex<T = JsonApiResource[]>(
  name,
  options?: {
    params,
    withAuth,
    deserialize,
    locale,
    defaultLocale,
    next
  }
): Promise<T>
```

- `name: string`
  - **Required**
  - The name of the search index.
- `options`
  - Optional
  - `params: JsonApiParams`: JSON:API params such as `filter`, `fields`, `include` or `sort`.
  - `withAuth: boolean | DrupalClientAuth`:
    - Set the authentication method to use. See the [authentication docs](/docs/authentication).
    - Set to `true` to use the authentication method configured on the client.
  - `deserialize: boolean`: Set to false to return the raw JSON:API response.
  - `locale: string`: The locale to fetch the view in.
  - `defaultLocale: string`: The default locale of the site.
  - `next: NextFetchRequestConfig`
    - Set the `revalidate` option in seconds to configure [Time-based revalidation](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/fetching-caching-and-revalidating#time-based-revalidation).  
      Ex: `next: { revalidate: 3600 } // revalidate resource every hour`
    - Set the `tags` option to confiure [Tag-based On demand revalidation](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/fetching-caching-and-revalidating#on-demand-revalidation).  
      Ex: `next: { tags: ['resource-tag'] }`

---

## Examples

- Get search results from an index named `articles`.

```ts
const results = await drupal.getSearchIndex("articles")
```

---

## TypeScript

- Using `DrupalNode` for a node entity type.

```ts
import { DrupalNode } from "next-drupal"

const results = await drupal.getSearchIndex<DrupalNode>("articles")
```

See the [TypeScript docs](/docs/typescript) for more built-in types.
