www/content/tutorials/quick-start/apply-patches.mdx, before:

---
title: Apply Patches
excerpt: Apply patches for Subrequests and Decoupled Router modules
weight: 30
group: Quick Start
---

At the time of this writing, there are two patches we need to wire everything together.

1. Open your Drupal `composer.json` file.
2. Add the following patches under `"extra"`.

```json title=composer.json
"extra": {
		// highlight-start
    "patches": {
        "drupal/subrequests": {
            "Get same results on different request": "https://www.drupal.org/files/issues/2019-07-18/change_request_type-63049395-09.patch"
        },
        "drupal/decoupled_router": {
            "Unable to resolve path on node in other language than default": "https://www.drupal.org/files/issues/2022-11-30/decouple_router-3111456-resolve-language-issue-58.patch"
        }
    },
		// highlight-end
}
```

<Callout>

**Note:** If you're not using multilingual features such as translation, you can skip the second patch.

</Callout>

3. Run the following command:

```sh
composer require cweagans/composer-patches
```

You can read more about the patches here:

1. https://www.drupal.org/project/subrequests/issues/3049395
2. https://www.drupal.org/project/decoupled_router/issues/3111456

Commit message:

chore: add todo to apply patches doc

www/content/tutorials/quick-start/apply-patches.mdx, after:

---
title: Apply Patches
excerpt: Apply patches for Subrequests and Decoupled Router modules
weight: 30
group: Quick Start
---

At the time of this writing, there are two patches we need to wire everything together.

1. Open your Drupal `composer.json` file.
2. Add the following patches under `"extra"`.

TODO - validate that these patches are necessary and correct.

```json title=composer.json
"extra": {
		// highlight-start
    "patches": {
        "drupal/subrequests": {
            "Get same results on different request": "https://www.drupal.org/files/issues/2019-07-18/change_request_type-63049395-09.patch"
        },
        "drupal/decoupled_router": {
            "Unable to resolve path on node in other language than default": "https://www.drupal.org/files/issues/2022-11-30/decouple_router-3111456-resolve-language-issue-58.patch"
        }
    },
		// highlight-end
}
```

<Callout>

**Note:** If you're not using multilingual features such as translation, you can skip the second patch.

</Callout>

3. Run the following command:

```sh
composer require cweagans/composer-patches
```

You can read more about the patches here:

1. https://www.drupal.org/project/subrequests/issues/3049395
2. https://www.drupal.org/project/decoupled_router/issues/3111456
