www/content/docs/creating-resources.mdx, before:

---
title: Creating Resources (POST)
excerpt: How to create JSON:API resources using DrupalClient.
---

<Callout icon="⚠️">

The `createResource` and `createFileResource` helpers are available in `next-drupal ^1.4.0`.

</Callout>

The `DrupalClient` ships with a `createResource` and a `createFileResource` methods for creating JSON:API resources.

---

## createResource

### Create Resource

Create an article with a title and a body.

```ts
const article = await drupal.createResource("node--article", {
  data: {
    attributes: {
      title: "Title of Article",
      body: {
        value: "<p>Content of body field</p>",
        format: "full_html",
      },
    },
  },
})
```

### Create Resource with Relationships

Create an article with a media field.

```ts
const article = await drupal.createResource("node--article", {
  data: {
    attributes: {
      title: "Title of Article",
      body: {
        value: "<p>Content of body field</p>",
        format: "full_html",
      },
    },
    // highlight-start
    relationships: {
      field_media_image: {
        data: {
          type: "media--image",
          id: media.id,
        },
      },
    },
    // highlight-end
  },
})
```

See the API reference for [createResource](/docs/reference/createresource).

---

## createFileResource

To create a file resource, you use the name of the file field on the parent entity.

Example: A `media--image` with a file field called `field_media_image`.

```ts
const file = await drupal.createFileResource("file--file", {
  data: {
    attributes: {
      type: "media--image", // <-- The type of the parent resource.
      field: "field_media_image", // <-- The name of the field on the parent resource.
      filename: "filename.jpg",
      file: await fs.readFile("/path/to/file.jpg"),
    },
  },
})
```

This will create a `file--file` resource.

You can then use this to create a new `media--image` with a relationship to the `file--file`.

```ts
const media = await drupal.createResource<DrupalMedia>("media--image", {
  data: {
    attributes: {
      name: "Name for the media",
    },
    relationships: {
      field_media_image: {
        data: {
          type: "file--file",
          id: file.id,
        },
      },
    },
  },
})
```

See the API reference for [createFileResource](/docs/reference/createfileresource).

---

## Authentication

To make authenticated requests when creating resources, use the `withAuth` option.

See the [authentication docs](/docs/authentication) for the supported authentication methods.

```ts
const article = await drupal.createResource(
  "node--article",
  {
    data: {
      attributes: {
        title: "Title of Article",
        body: {
          value: "<p>Content of body field</p>",
          format: "full_html",
        },
      },
    }
  },
  // highlight-start
  {
    withAuth: // <-- Your auth method here.
  }
  // highlight-end
)
```

Commit message:

docs(next-drupal): updated docs (#787)
Co-authored-by: Marco Monti <marco@easytech.com.ar>
Co-authored-by: Brian Perry <contact.brianperry@gmail.com>

www/content/docs/creating-resources.mdx, after:

---
title: Creating Resources (POST)
excerpt: How to create JSON:API resources using NextDrupal client.
---

<Callout icon="⚠️">

The `createResource` and `createFileResource` helpers are available in `next-drupal ^1.4.0`.

</Callout>

<Callout>

If you're working with JSON:API, be mindful to select the option:

`Accept all JSON:API create, read, update, and delete operations.`

on the following path: `/admin/config/services/jsonapi` in Drupal.

</Callout>

The `NextDrupal` client ships with `createResource` and `createFileResource` methods for creating JSON:API resources.

---

## createResource

#### Create Resource

Create an article with a title and a body.

```ts
const article = await drupal.createResource("node--article", {
  data: {
    attributes: {
      title: "Title of Article",
      body: {
        value: "<p>Content of body field</p>",
        format: "full_html",
      },
    },
  },
})
```

#### Create Resource with Relationships

Create an article with a media field.

```ts
const article = await drupal.createResource("node--article", {
  data: {
    attributes: {
      title: "Title of Article",
      body: {
        value: "<p>Content of body field</p>",
        format: "full_html",
      },
    },
    // highlight-start
    relationships: {
      field_media_image: {
        data: {
          type: "media--image",
          id: media.id,
        },
      },
    },
    // highlight-end
  },
})
```

See the API reference for [createResource](/docs/reference/createresource).

---

## createFileResource

To create a file resource, you use the name of the file field on the parent entity.

Example: A `media--image` with a file field called `field_media_image`.

```ts
const file = await drupal.createFileResource("file--file", {
  data: {
    attributes: {
      type: "media--image", // <-- The type of the parent resource.
      field: "field_media_image", // <-- The name of the field on the parent resource.
      filename: "filename.jpg",
      file: await fs.readFile("/path/to/file.jpg"),
    },
  },
})
```

This will create a `file--file` resource.

You can then use this to create a new `media--image` with a relationship to the `file--file`.

```ts
const media = await drupal.createResource<DrupalMedia>("media--image", {
  data: {
    attributes: {
      name: "Name for the media",
    },
    relationships: {
      field_media_image: {
        data: {
          type: "file--file",
          id: file.id,
        },
      },
    },
  },
})
```

See the API reference for [createFileResource](/docs/reference/createfileresource).

---

## Authentication

To make authenticated requests when creating resources, use the `withAuth` option.

See the [authentication docs](/docs/authentication) for the supported authentication methods.

```ts
const article = await drupal.createResource(
  "node--article",
  {
    data: {
      attributes: {
        title: "Title of Article",
        body: {
          value: "<p>Content of body field</p>",
          format: "full_html",
        },
      },
    }
  },
  // highlight-start
  {
    withAuth: // <-- Your auth method here.
  }
  // highlight-end
)
```
