www/content/docs/fetching-resources.mdx, before:

---
title: Fetching Resources (GET)
excerpt: How to fetch JSON:API resources using DrupalClient.
---

The `DrupalClient` ships with helpers to fetch JSON:API data from Drupal.

You can fetch a single resource, `getResource` or a collection of resources, `getResourceCollection`.

Every helper method:

- Accepts a resource type: `node--article` or `taxonomy_term--tags`.
- A `params` option for query params: `fields`, `include`, `filter`, ...etc
- A `withAuth` option for authentication. See the [authentication docs](/docs/authentication).
- A `deserialize` option if you want to fetch raw JSON:API data.

Here's what a call to fetch `node--article` resources would look like:

```ts
import { drupal } from "lib/drupal"

const articles = await drupal.getResourceCollection("node--article", {
  params: {
    "fields[node--article]": "title,created", // Fetch the title and created fields only.
    sort: "-created", // Sort the articles by created date in descending order.
  },
})
```

<Callout>

If you're building complex query params, see the guide on how to use [Drupal JSON:API Params](/guides/jsonapi-params).

</Callout>

---

## getResource

Fetch an article by id.

```ts
const article = await drupal.getResource(
  "node--article",
  "dad82fe9-f2b7-463e-8c5f-02f73018d6cb"
)
```

Fetch a block by id.

```ts
const block = await drupal.getResource(
  "block_content--basic",
  "687f74ec-e599-4f5c-8175-f24510c77e83"
)
```

See the API reference for [getResource](/docs/reference/getresource).

---

## getResourceFromContext

Fetch an article in `getStaticProps/getServerSideProps` with context.

If you're using [internationalization](https://nextjs.org/docs/advanced-features/i18n-routing), this will automatically fetch the localized resource using the `locale` set in context.

```ts
const article = await drupal.getResourceFromContext("node--article", context)
```

See the API reference for [getResourceFromContext](/docs/reference/getresourcefromcontext).

---

## getResourceCollection

Fetch all users

```ts
const users = await drupal.getResourceCollection("user--user")
```

Fetch all published articles sorted by date.

```ts
const articles = await drupal.getResourceCollection("node--article", {
  params: {
    "filter[status]": "1",
    sort: "-created",
  },
})
```

See the API reference for [getResourceCollection](/docs/reference/getresourcecollection).

---

## getResourceCollectionFromContext

Fetch articles in `getStaticProps/getServerSideProps` with context.

If you're using [internationalization](https://nextjs.org/docs/advanced-features/i18n-routing), this will automatically fetch localized resources using the `locale` set in context.

```ts
const articles = await drupal.getResourceCollectionFromContext(
  "node--article",
  context
)
```

See the API reference for [getResourceCollectionFromContext](/docs/reference/getresourcecollectionfromcontext).

---

## getMenu

<Callout>

You need to install the [JSON:API Menu Items](https://www.drupal.org/project/jsonapi_menu_items) module to use `getMenu`.

</Callout>

Fetch a menu by name

```ts
const menu = await drupal.getMenu("main")
```

See the API reference for [getMenu](/docs/reference/getmenu).

---

## getView

<Callout>

You need to install the [JSON:API Views](https://www.drupal.org/project/jsonapi_views) module to use `getView`.

</Callout>

Fetch a view by name and display_id.

```ts
const view = await drupal.getView("promoted_items--block_1")
```

See the API reference for [getView](/docs/reference/getview).

---

## getSearchIndex

<Callout>

You need to install the [JSON:API Search API](https://www.drupal.org/project/jsonapi_search_api) module to query your Search API indexes.

</Callout>

Fetch results from a Search API index.

```ts
const results = await drupal.getSearchIndex(indexName, {
  params: {
    filter: { name_of_field: value },
  },
})
```

See the API reference for [getSearchIndex](/docs/reference/getsearch).

---

## Authentication

To make authenticated requests when fetching resources, use the `withAuth` option.

See the [authentication docs](/docs/authentication) for the supported authentication methods.

```ts
const article = await drupal.getResourceCollection(
  "node--article",
  // highlight-start
  {
    withAuth: // <-- Your auth method here.
  }
  // highlight-end
)
```

## More

See the [Examples](/examples) section for data fetching examples.

Commit message:

docs(next-drupal): updated docs (#787)
Co-authored-by: Marco Monti <marco@easytech.com.ar>
Co-authored-by: Brian Perry <contact.brianperry@gmail.com>

www/content/docs/fetching-resources.mdx, after:

---
title: Fetching Resources (GET)
excerpt: How to fetch JSON:API resources using NextDrupal client.
---

The `NextDrupal` client ships with helpers to fetch JSON:API data from Drupal.

You can fetch a single resource, `getResource` or a collection of resources, `getResourceCollection`.

Every helper method:

- Accepts a resource type: `node--article` or `taxonomy_term--tags`.
- A `params` option for query params: `fields`, `include`, `filter`, ...etc
- A `withAuth` option for authentication. See the [authentication docs](/docs/authentication).
- A `deserialize` option if you want to fetch raw JSON:API data.

Here's what a call to fetch `node--article` resources would look like:

```ts
import { drupal } from "lib/drupal"

const articles = await drupal.getResourceCollection("node--article", {
  params: {
    "fields[node--article]": "title,created", // Fetch the title and created fields only.
    sort: "-created", // Sort the articles by created date in descending order.
  },
})
```

<Callout>

If you're building complex query params, see the guide on how to use [Drupal JSON:API Params](/guides/jsonapi-params).

</Callout>

---

## getResource

Fetch an article by id.

```ts
const article = await drupal.getResource(
  "node--article",
  "dad82fe9-f2b7-463e-8c5f-02f73018d6cb"
)
```

Fetch a block by id.

```ts
const block = await drupal.getResource(
  "block_content--basic",
  "687f74ec-e599-4f5c-8175-f24510c77e83"
)
```

See the API reference for [getResource](/docs/reference/getresource).

---

## getResourceByPath

Fetch an article by path.

```ts
const article = await drupal.getResourceByPath("/blog/slug-for-article")
```

See the API reference for [getResourceByPath](/docs/reference/getresourcebypath).

---

## getResourceCollection

Fetch all users

```ts
const users = await drupal.getResourceCollection("user--user")
```

Fetch all published articles sorted by date.

```ts
const articles = await drupal.getResourceCollection("node--article", {
  params: {
    "filter[status]": "1",
    sort: "-created",
  },
})
```

See the API reference for [getResourceCollection](/docs/reference/getresourcecollection).

---

## getMenu

<Callout>

You need to install the [JSON:API Menu Items](https://www.drupal.org/project/jsonapi_menu_items) module to use `getMenu`.

</Callout>

Fetch a menu by name

```ts
const menu = await drupal.getMenu("main")
```

See the API reference for [getMenu](/docs/reference/getmenu).

---

## getView

<Callout>

You need to install the [JSON:API Views](https://www.drupal.org/project/jsonapi_views) module to use `getView`.

</Callout>

Fetch a view by name and display_id.

```ts
const view = await drupal.getView("promoted_items--block_1")
```

See the API reference for [getView](/docs/reference/getview).

---

## getSearchIndex

<Callout>

You need to install the [JSON:API Search API](https://www.drupal.org/project/jsonapi_search_api) module to query your Search API indexes.

</Callout>

Fetch results from a Search API index.

```ts
const results = await drupal.getSearchIndex(indexName, {
  params: {
    filter: { name_of_field: value },
  },
})
```

See the API reference for [getSearchIndex](/docs/reference/getsearch).

---

## Authentication

To make authenticated requests when fetching resources, use the `withAuth` option.

See the [authentication docs](/docs/authentication) for the supported authentication methods.

```ts
const article = await drupal.getResourceCollection(
  "node--article",
  // highlight-start
  {
    withAuth: // <-- Your auth method here.
  }
  // highlight-end
)
```
