www/content/docs/pages.mdx, before:

---
title: Building Pages
excerpt: How to build pages using JSON:API resources from Drupal.
---

In Next.js V14, data fetching has evolved significantly from previous versions. Instead of using `getStaticProps` and `getServerSideProps` you now use the native `fetch` function enhanced by Next.js to handle server-side data fetching.

The `NextDrupal` client provides several functions to help you query JSON:API resources from Drupal.

<!--
************************************************************
*  TODO: Remove this block before publishing.

*  Comment: Need to corroborate (and maybe update) once next-drupal supports `next` revalidation options. Possible replacement for above introduction once it's supported

In Next.js V14, data fetching has evolved significantly from previous versions. Instead of using `getStaticProps` and `getServerSideProps` you now use the native `fetch` function enhanced by Next.js to handle server-side data fetching. This allows you to configure caching and revalidation directly within your fetch requests. These can be used in Server Components, Route Handlers, and Server Actions. You can read more about it [here](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/fetching-caching-and-revalidating)

The `NextDrupal` client provides several functions to help you query JSON:API resources from Drupal and manage these revalidation options on the `fetch` request level.

************************************************************
-->

---

## Basic Example

Here's an example which uses `getResource` to fetch a `page` node by ID:

```tsx
const node = await drupal.getResource(
  "node--page",
  "07464e9f-9221-4a4f-b7f2-01389408e6c8"
)
```

A full page would look like this:

```tsx title=app/about/page.tsx
// page will be generated at build time
export default function AboutPage() {
  // Fetch the node from Drupal.
  const node = await drupal.getResource(
    "node--page",
    "07464e9f-9221-4a4f-b7f2-01389408e6c8"
  )

  return (
    <article>
      <h1>{node.title}</h1>
      // ...
    </article>
  )
}
```

---

## Dynamic pages

You can use Next.js [dynamic routes](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/dynamic-routes) to build static pages for Drupal entity types.

Start by creating a page at `/app/[...slug]/page.tsx`, where `[...slug]` maps to the **path alias** for an entity type (or content type) in Drupal.

This means `/app/[...slug]/page.tsx` will handle all pages with the following aliases: `/about`, `/team`, `/another/path` ...etc.

To build static pages, there is a built-in function we need to use:

`generateStaticParams`: to tell Next.js all the routes that we want to have pre-rendered at build time.

```tsx title=app/[...slug]/page.tsx

export async function generateStaticParams() {
  // Build paths for all `node--page`.
  const resources = await drupal.getResourceCollectionPathSegments(
    "node--page"
  );
  return resources.map((resource) => slug: resource.segments);
}
export default function Page({ params }) {
  const {slug} = params;

  // Construct drupal path based on params
  const drupalPath = drupal.constructPathFromSegment(slug)

  // Fetch the node based on drupal path.
  const node = drupal.getResourceByPath(drupalPath)

  return (
    <article>
      <h1>{node.title}</h1>
      // ...
    </article>
  )
}
```

---

## Advanced Example

In the example above, we used `app/[...slug]/page.tsx` to build static pages for `node--page`.

We can go a step further and handle all node types (or any entity types) in one page.

To do that, we're going to use `translatePath` which returns info about the resource type based on `slug` value in `params`.

Let's update `app/[...slug]/page.tsx` to handle both `node--page` and `node--article`.

```tsx title=app/[...slug]/page.tsx
import { DrupalJsonApiParams } from "drupal-jsonapi-params"

export async function generateStaticParams() {
  // Build paths for all `node--page` and `node--article`.

  const resources = await drupal.getResourceCollectionPathSegments(
    ["node--page", "node--article"]
  );
  return resources.map((resource) => slug: resource.segments);
}


export default function Page({ params }) {
  const {slug} = params;

  const path = drupal.translatePath(slug)

  // Get the resource type.
  const type = path.jsonapi.resourceName

  const params = new DrupalJsonApiParams()

  // Fetch the title, path and body field for pages.
  if (type === "node--page") {
    params.addFields("node--page", ["title", "path", "body"])
  }

  // Fetch additional fields for articles.
  if (type === "node--article") {
    params.addFields("node--article", ["title", "path", "body", "uid"])
  }

  const node = await drupal.getResource(path, path.entity.uuid {
    params: params.getQueryObject(),
  })

  // Render different Components based on Node type.
  if (node.type === "node--page") {
    return <PageComponent node={node}/>
  }

  if (node.type === "node--article") {
    return <ArticleComponent node={node}/>
  }

  return null
}
```

## Reference

See the [fetching JSON:API resources](/docs/fetching-resources) section for more examples of fetching resources and collection of resources.

## Pages Router

TODO

Commit message:

docs: edits to building pages entry - work in progress

www/content/docs/pages.mdx, after:

---
title: Building Pages
excerpt: How to build pages using JSON:API resources from Drupal.
---

In Next.js V14, data fetching has evolved significantly from previous versions. Instead of using `getStaticProps` and `getServerSideProps` you now use the native `fetch` function enhanced by Next.js to handle server-side data fetching. This also allows you to configure caching and revalidation directly within your fetch requests. These can be used in Server Components, Route Handlers, and Server Actions. You can read more about it [here](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/fetching-caching-and-revalidating).

The `NextDrupal` client provides several functions to help you query JSON:API resources from Drupal and manage these revalidation options on the `fetch` request level.

---

## Basic Example

Here's an example which uses `getResource` to fetch a `page` node by ID:

```tsx
const node = await drupal.getResource(
  "node--page",
  "07464e9f-9221-4a4f-b7f2-01389408e6c8"
)
```

A full page would look like this:

```tsx title=app/about/page.tsx
// page will be generated at build time
export default function AboutPage() {
  // Fetch the node from Drupal.
  const node = await drupal.getResource(
    "node--page",
    "07464e9f-9221-4a4f-b7f2-01389408e6c8"
  )

  return (
    <article>
      <h1>{node.title}</h1>
      // ...
    </article>
  )
}
```

TODO - time based revalidation.

---

## Dynamic pages

You can use Next.js [dynamic routes](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/dynamic-routes) to build static pages for Drupal entity types.

Start by creating a page at `/app/[...slug]/page.tsx`, where `[...slug]` maps to the **path alias** for an entity type (or content type) in Drupal.

This means `/app/[...slug]/page.tsx` will handle all pages with the following aliases: `/about`, `/team`, `/another/path` ...etc.

To build static pages, there is a built-in function we need to use:

`generateStaticParams`: to tell Next.js all the routes that we want to have pre-rendered at build time.

```tsx title=app/[...slug]/page.tsx

export async function generateStaticParams() {
  // Build paths for all `node--page`.
  const resources = await drupal.getResourceCollectionPathSegments(
    "node--page"
  );
  return resources.map((resource) => slug: resource.segments);
}
export default function Page({ params }) {
  const {slug} = params;

  // Construct drupal path based on params
  const drupalPath = drupal.constructPathFromSegment(slug)

  // Fetch the node based on drupal path.
  const node = drupal.getResourceByPath(drupalPath)

  return (
    <article>
      <h1>{node.title}</h1>
      // ...
    </article>
  )
}
```

---

## Advanced Example

In the example above, we used `app/[...slug]/page.tsx` to build static pages for `node--page`.

We can go a step further and handle all node types (or any entity types) in one page.

To do that, we're going to use `translatePath` which returns info about the resource type based on `slug` value in `params`.

Let's update `app/[...slug]/page.tsx` to handle both `node--page` and `node--article`.

```tsx title=app/[...slug]/page.tsx
import { DrupalJsonApiParams } from "drupal-jsonapi-params"

export async function generateStaticParams() {
  // Build paths for all `node--page` and `node--article`.

  const resources = await drupal.getResourceCollectionPathSegments(
    ["node--page", "node--article"]
  );
  return resources.map((resource) => slug: resource.segments);
}


export default function Page({ params }) {
  const {slug} = params;

  const path = drupal.translatePath(slug)

  // Get the resource type.
  const type = path.jsonapi.resourceName

  const params = new DrupalJsonApiParams()

  // Fetch the title, path and body field for pages.
  if (type === "node--page") {
    params.addFields("node--page", ["title", "path", "body"])
  }

  // Fetch additional fields for articles.
  if (type === "node--article") {
    params.addFields("node--article", ["title", "path", "body", "uid"])
  }

  const node = await drupal.getResource(path, path.entity.uuid {
    params: params.getQueryObject(),
  })

  // Render different Components based on Node type.
  if (node.type === "node--page") {
    return <PageComponent node={node}/>
  }

  if (node.type === "node--article") {
    return <ArticleComponent node={node}/>
  }

  return null
}
```

TODO - tag based revalidation.

## Reference

See the [fetching JSON:API resources](/docs/fetching-resources) section for more examples of fetching resources and collection of resources.

## Pages Router

TODO - Port some examples from the previous docs.
