www/content/docs/updating-resources.mdx, before:

---
title: Updating Resources (PATCH)
excerpt: How to update JSON:API resources using DrupalClient.
---

<Callout icon="⚠️">

The `updateResource` helper is available in `next-drupal ^1.4.0`.

</Callout>

The `DrupalClient` ships with a `updateResource` method for updating JSON:API resources.

---

## updateResource

### Update Resource

```ts
const article = await drupal.updateResource(
  "node--article",
  "a937dd34-5407-4fff-8594-fccaaa5bb72a", // <-- Article ID
  {
    data: {
      attributes: {
        title: "Title of Article",
      },
    },
  }
)
```

### Update Resource with Relationships

```ts
const article = await drupal.updateResource(
  "node--article",
  "a937dd34-5407-4fff-8594-fccaaa5bb72a",
  {
    data: {
      attributes: {
        title: "Title of Article",
      },
      relationships: {
        field_media_image: {
          data: {
            type: "media--image",
            id: media.id,
          },
        },
      },
    },
  }
)
```

See the API reference for [updateResource](/docs/reference/updateresource).

---

## Authentication

To make authenticated requests when updating resources, use the `withAuth` option.

See the [authentication docs](/docs/authentication) for the supported authentication methods.

```ts
const article = await drupal.updateResource(
  "node--article",
  "a937dd34-5407-4fff-8594-fccaaa5bb72a",
  {
    data: {
      attributes: {
        title: "Title of Article",
      },
    },
  },
  // highlight-start
  {
    withAuth: // <-- Your auth method here.
  }
  // highlight-end
)
```

Commit message:

docs(next-drupal): updated docs (#787)
Co-authored-by: Marco Monti <marco@easytech.com.ar>
Co-authored-by: Brian Perry <contact.brianperry@gmail.com>

www/content/docs/updating-resources.mdx, after:

---
title: Updating Resources (PATCH)
excerpt: How to update JSON:API resources using NextDrupal client.
---

<Callout icon="⚠️">

The `updateResource` helper is available in `next-drupal ^1.4.0`.

</Callout>

<Callout>

If you're working with JSON:API, be mindful to select the option:

`Accept all JSON:API create, read, update, and delete operations.`

on the following path: `/admin/config/services/jsonapi` on Drupal.

</Callout>

The `NextDrupal` client ships with a `updateResource` method for updating JSON:API resources.

---

## updateResource

#### Update Resource

```ts
const article = await drupal.updateResource(
  "node--article",
  "a937dd34-5407-4fff-8594-fccaaa5bb72a", // <-- Article ID
  {
    data: {
      attributes: {
        title: "Title of Article",
      },
    },
  }
)
```

#### Update Resource with Relationships

```ts
const article = await drupal.updateResource(
  "node--article",
  "a937dd34-5407-4fff-8594-fccaaa5bb72a",
  {
    data: {
      attributes: {
        title: "Title of Article",
      },
      relationships: {
        field_media_image: {
          data: {
            type: "media--image",
            id: media.id,
          },
        },
      },
    },
  }
)
```

See the API reference for [updateResource](/docs/reference/updateresource).

---

## Authentication

To make authenticated requests when updating resources, use the `withAuth` option.

See the [authentication docs](/docs/authentication) for the supported authentication methods.

```ts
const article = await drupal.updateResource(
  "node--article",
  "a937dd34-5407-4fff-8594-fccaaa5bb72a",
  {
    data: {
      attributes: {
        title: "Title of Article",
      },
    },
  },
  // highlight-start
  {
    withAuth: // <-- Your auth method here.
  }
  // highlight-end
)
```
