www/content/docs/upgrade-guide.mdx, before:

---
title: Upgrade Guide
excerpt: Guide for upgrading your site to use DrupalClient.
---

<Callout icon="⚠️">

The `DrupalClient` is an optional feature. If you're running a site using `next-drupal 1.2 or below`, you can safely upgrade your site without any breaking changes.

</Callout>

1. Upgrade to the latest version

```sh
yarn add next-drupal@latest
```

2. Create a new `DrupalClient` in `lib/drupal.ts`

```ts title=lib/drupal.ts
import { DrupalClient } from "next-drupal"

export const drupal = new DrupalClient(
  process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_DRUPAL_BASE_URL,
  {
    frontPage: "/home",
    previewSecret: process.env.DRUPAL_PREVIEW_SECRET,
    auth: {
      clientId: process.env.DRUPAL_CLIENT_ID,
      clientSecret: process.env.DRUPAL_CLIENT_SECRET,
    },
  }
)
```

By default, all requests made to Drupal by `DrupalClient` are un-authenticated. See _Step 5_ below on how to configure permissions for un-authenticated calls.

To make authenticated requests, you opt-in on a [method-basis](/docs/authentication#method-authentication).

If you want to have all requests authenticated, you can use the [`withAuth`](/docs/configuration#withauth) option on the `DrupalClient`:

```ts
import { DrupalClient } from "next-drupal"

export const drupal = new DrupalClient(
  process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_DRUPAL_BASE_URL,
  {
    frontPage: "/home",
    previewSecret: process.env.DRUPAL_PREVIEW_SECRET,
    auth: {
      clientId: process.env.DRUPAL_CLIENT_ID,
      clientSecret: process.env.DRUPAL_CLIENT_SECRET,
    },
    // highlight-start
    withAuth: true,
    // highlight-end
  }
)
```

3. Update helpers to use the `drupal` client.

```diff
+ import { drupal } from "lib/drupal"


- await getPathsFromContext()
+ await drupal.getStaticPathsFromContext()


- await translatePathFromContext()
+ await drupal.translatePathFromContext()


- await getResourceFromContext()
+ await drupal.getResourceFromContext()
```

4. Replace `pages/api/preview.ts` with the following:

```diff
- import { DrupalPreview } from "next-drupal"
-
- export default DrupalPreview()

+ import { drupal } from "lib/drupal"
+
+ export default async function (request, response) {
+  return await drupal.preview(request, response)
+ }
```

5. On the Drupal site, visit `/admin/people/permissions/anonymous` and assign the **Issue subrequests** permission to the **Anonymous user** role: <br /><br />
   We do this because during the build phase, most of the requests for pages are anonymous requests. By assigning this permission, you can significantly decrease your site's build time. <br /><br />
   If you would rather keep requests authenticated, you can use the [`withAuth`](/docs/client/configuration#withauth) options.

6. Done. You are now ready to run your site using the new `DrupalClient`.

If you see any bugs during the upgrade, feel free to create an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/chapter-three/next-drupal).

Commit message:

docs(www): add upgrade guide for 1.5

www/content/docs/upgrade-guide.mdx, after:

---
title: Upgrade Guide
excerpt: Guide for upgrading your site to use DrupalClient.
---

## next 1.3.0

1. Upgrade your Drupal site to use `next 1.3.0`

```sh
composer require drupal/next
```

2. Edit the Next.js user and assign all roles that can be used as a scope. The granted roles will be filtered based on roles assigned to the current user.

3. Upgrade the `next-drupal` package to `1.5.0`. See the upgrade guide below.

---

## next-drupal 1.5.0

1. Upgrade to the latest version

```sh
yarn add next-drupal@latest
```

---

## next-drupal 1.4.0

<Callout icon="⚠️">

The `DrupalClient` is an optional feature. If you're running a site using `next-drupal 1.2 or below`, you can safely upgrade your site without any breaking changes.

</Callout>

1. Upgrade to the latest version

```sh
yarn add next-drupal@latest
```

2. Create a new `DrupalClient` in `lib/drupal.ts`

```ts title=lib/drupal.ts
import { DrupalClient } from "next-drupal"

export const drupal = new DrupalClient(
  process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_DRUPAL_BASE_URL,
  {
    frontPage: "/home",
    previewSecret: process.env.DRUPAL_PREVIEW_SECRET,
    auth: {
      clientId: process.env.DRUPAL_CLIENT_ID,
      clientSecret: process.env.DRUPAL_CLIENT_SECRET,
    },
  }
)
```

By default, all requests made to Drupal by `DrupalClient` are un-authenticated. See _Step 5_ below on how to configure permissions for un-authenticated calls.

To make authenticated requests, you opt-in on a [method-basis](/docs/authentication#method-authentication).

If you want to have all requests authenticated, you can use the [`withAuth`](/docs/configuration#withauth) option on the `DrupalClient`:

```ts
import { DrupalClient } from "next-drupal"

export const drupal = new DrupalClient(
  process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_DRUPAL_BASE_URL,
  {
    frontPage: "/home",
    previewSecret: process.env.DRUPAL_PREVIEW_SECRET,
    auth: {
      clientId: process.env.DRUPAL_CLIENT_ID,
      clientSecret: process.env.DRUPAL_CLIENT_SECRET,
    },
    // highlight-start
    withAuth: true,
    // highlight-end
  }
)
```

3. Update helpers to use the `drupal` client.

```diff
+ import { drupal } from "lib/drupal"


- await getPathsFromContext()
+ await drupal.getStaticPathsFromContext()


- await translatePathFromContext()
+ await drupal.translatePathFromContext()


- await getResourceFromContext()
+ await drupal.getResourceFromContext()
```

4. Replace `pages/api/preview.ts` with the following:

```diff
- import { DrupalPreview } from "next-drupal"
-
- export default DrupalPreview()

+ import { drupal } from "lib/drupal"
+
+ export default async function (request, response) {
+  return await drupal.preview(request, response)
+ }
```

5. On the Drupal site, visit `/admin/people/permissions/anonymous` and assign the **Issue subrequests** permission to the **Anonymous user** role: <br /><br />
   We do this because during the build phase, most of the requests for pages are anonymous requests. By assigning this permission, you can significantly decrease your site's build time. <br /><br />
   If you would rather keep requests authenticated, you can use the [`withAuth`](/docs/client/configuration#withauth) options.

6. Done. You are now ready to run your site using the new `DrupalClient`.

If you see any bugs during the upgrade, feel free to create an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/chapter-three/next-drupal).
