www/content/guides/search-api.mdx, before:

---
title: Search API
excerpt: Implement search using Drupal Search API.
---

<Callout>

You need to install the [JSON:API Search API](https://www.drupal.org/project/jsonapi_search_api) module to query your Search API indexes.

</Callout>

---

## Installation

1. Start by installing the [Search API](https://www.drupal.org/project/search_api) module. If you want faceted search, install the [Facets](https://www.drupal.org/project/facets) module as well.

```sh
composer require drupal/search_api drupal/facets
```

2. Enable the following modules: **Search API**, **Database Search**, **Facets**, **JSON:API Search API** and **JSON:API Search API Facets**.
3. Create a **server** and **index** by following the guide [here](https://www.drupal.org/docs/contributed-modules/search-api).

For every index created, a **facet source** is available. You can use this source to create filters.

4. Visit `/admin/config/search/facets` and click on **Add facet**.
5. Under **Facet source**, select the server created above. For **Field**, select the field to filter on. Save.
6. Next, edit the facet and make sure **JSON:API Search API** is selected under widget.
7. You can now make queries to your indexes via JSON:API.

```ts
import { drupal } from "lib/drupal"

const results = await drupal.getSearchIndex(indexName, {
  params: {
    filter: { name_of_field: value },
  },
})
```

## Implementation

We recommend using an [API route](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-routes/introduction) for querying the search index. Using an API route means you can share search indexes, implement rate limiting and filtering using middlewares.

1. Create the following API route.

```ts title=api/pages/[index].tsx
import { NextApiRequest, NextApiResponse } from "next"
import { DrupalNode } from "next-drupal"

import { drupal } from "lib/drupal"

export default async function handler(
  request: NextApiRequest,
  response: NextApiResponse
) {
  try {
    const body = JSON.parse(request.body)

    const { index } = request.query

    const results = await drupal.getSearchIndex<DrupalNode>(
      index as string,
      body
    )

    response.json(results)
  } catch (error) {
    return response.status(400).json(error.message)
  }
}
```

2. To make a search request from your React component, you can use a simple fetch request.

```tsx
const response = await fetch("/api/search/INDEX-NAME-HERE", {
  method: "POST",
  body: JSON.stringify({
    params: {
      filter: { name_of_field: value },
    },
  }),
})
```

## Demo

See [https://example-search-api.next-drupal.org](https://example-search-api.next-drupal.org).

## Example

See [https://github.com/chapter-three/next-drupal/tree/main/examples/example-search-api](https://github.com/chapter-three/next-drupal/tree/main/examples/example-search-api)

Commit message:

docs(www): update guide for search api localized results

www/content/guides/search-api.mdx, after:

---
title: Search API
excerpt: Implement search using Drupal Search API.
---

<Callout>

You need to install the [JSON:API Search API](https://www.drupal.org/project/jsonapi_search_api) module to query your Search API indexes.

</Callout>

---

## Installation

1. Start by installing the [Search API](https://www.drupal.org/project/search_api) module. If you want faceted search, install the [Facets](https://www.drupal.org/project/facets) module as well.

```sh
composer require drupal/search_api drupal/facets
```

2. Enable the following modules: **Search API**, **Database Search**, **Facets**, **JSON:API Search API** and **JSON:API Search API Facets**.
3. Create a **server** and **index** by following the guide [here](https://www.drupal.org/docs/contributed-modules/search-api).

For every index created, a **facet source** is available. You can use this source to create filters.

4. Visit `/admin/config/search/facets` and click on **Add facet**.
5. Under **Facet source**, select the server created above. For **Field**, select the field to filter on. Save.
6. Next, edit the facet and make sure **JSON:API Search API** is selected under widget.
7. You can now make queries to your indexes via JSON:API.

```ts
import { drupal } from "lib/drupal"

const results = await drupal.getSearchIndex(indexName, {
  params: {
    filter: { name_of_field: value },
  },
})
```

## Implementation

We recommend using an [API route](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-routes/introduction) for querying the search index. Using an API route means you can share search indexes, implement rate limiting and filtering using middlewares.

1. Create the following API route.

```ts title=api/pages/[index].tsx
import { NextApiRequest, NextApiResponse } from "next"
import { DrupalNode } from "next-drupal"

import { drupal } from "lib/drupal"

export default async function handler(
  request: NextApiRequest,
  response: NextApiResponse
) {
  try {
    const body = JSON.parse(request.body)

    const { index } = request.query

    const results = await drupal.getSearchIndex<DrupalNode>(
      index as string,
      body
    )

    response.json(results)
  } catch (error) {
    return response.status(400).json(error.message)
  }
}
```

2. To make a search request from your React component, you can use a simple fetch request.

```tsx
const response = await fetch("/api/search/INDEX-NAME-HERE", {
  method: "POST",
  body: JSON.stringify({
    params: {
      filter: { name_of_field: value },
    },
  }),
})
```

## Localized Search Results

Next.js API Routes have no context of the current locale. For localized search results, you should pass the `locale` and `defaultLocale` from the router.

```tsx
const router = useRouter()

const response = await fetch("/api/search/INDEX-NAME-HERE", {
  method: "POST",
  body: JSON.stringify({
    params: {
      filter: { name_of_field: value },
    },
    locale: router.locale,
    defaultLocale: router.defaultLocale,
  }),
})
```

## Demo

See [https://example-search-api.next-drupal.org](https://example-search-api.next-drupal.org).

## Example

See [https://github.com/chapter-three/next-drupal/tree/main/examples/example-search-api](https://github.com/chapter-three/next-drupal/tree/main/examples/example-search-api)
