www/content/guides/umami-demo.mdx, before:

---
title: Umami Demo
excerpt: How to run the Umami demo on your local.
---

## Drupal

1. Create a new Drupal project

```bash
composer create-project drupal/recommended-project umami
```

2. Edit `composer.json` file and add the following patches under `extra`.

```json
"extra": {
    "patches": {
        "drupal/subrequests": {
            "Get same results on different request": "https://www.drupal.org/files/issues/2019-07-18/change_request_type-63049395-09.patch"
        },
        "drupal/decoupled_router": {
            "Unable to resolve path on node in other language than default": "https://www.drupal.org/files/issues/2021-05-05/3111456-34.patch"
        }
    },
}
```

3. Add dependencies

```bash
composer require drupal/next drupal/jsonapi_menu_items drupal/jsonapi_views 'drupal/jsonapi_resources:^1.0@beta'
```

4. Run the Drupal quickstart

```bash
php -d memory_limit=256M ./web/core/scripts/drupal quick-start demo_umami
```

You should see the following:

```bash
Congratulations, you installed Drupal!
Username: admin
Password: rtWb8st3mVLtUCOF
Drupal development server started: <http://127.0.0.1:8888>
```

**Note the username and password.**

4. Login and enable the following modules:

- Next
- Next JSON:API
- JSON:API Menu Items
- JSON:API Views

---

## Next.js

1. Grab a copy of the Next.js code:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/chapter-three/next-example-umami
```

2. Install dependencies

```
yarn install
```

3. Copy `.env.example` to `.env.local` and update the values to point to your Drupal site:

```
NEXT_PUBLIC_DRUPAL_BASE_URL=http://drupal.test
NEXT_IMAGE_DOMAIN=drupal.test
```

4. Start the development server

```
yarn dev
```

5. Visit `http://localhost:3000` to see the Next.js site.

---

## How to enable authentication

We use the [simple_oauth](https://drupal.org/project/simple_oauth) module for authentication.

1. Visit `/admin/config/people/simple_oauth`.
2. Click on **Generate Keys**.
3. Enter `sites/default/files` for **Directory for the keys** and click **Generate**.
4. Visit `/admin/config/services/consumer` and edit the default client.
5. Enter `weDKc7PD845kq49JfPeYmsZ48e`under **New Secret** and **Save**.
6. Update your `.env.local` with the following:

```diff
# Required
NEXT_PUBLIC_DRUPAL_BASE_URL=http://localhost:8888
NEXT_IMAGE_DOMAIN=localhost

+ # Authentication (Bearer)
+ NEXTAUTH_SECRET=zdauNuBL7lLAHT9zIpxExCThVHSSOfIwouGOhr5cjWQ
+ NEXTAUTH_URL=http://localhost:3000
+ DRUPAL_CLIENT_ID=YOUR_DEFAULT_CLIENT_UUID_HERE
+ DRUPAL_CLIENT_SECRET=weDKc7PD845kq49JfPeYmsZ48e
```

7. Restart the Next.js development server.
8. If you visit `http://localhost:3000/login`, you should now be able to login with the Drupal admin username and password.

---

## How to enable JSON:API Write Operations

1. Visit `/admin/config/services/jsonapi`
2. Under **Allowed Operations**, select **Accept all JSON:API create, read, update, and delete operations.**.
3. **Save configuration**

You can now visit `http://localhost:3000/articles/new` to create a new article.

Commit message:

docs(www): update umami demo guide

www/content/guides/umami-demo.mdx, after:

---
title: Umami Demo
excerpt: How to run the Umami demo on your local.
---

## Drupal

1. Create a new Drupal project

```bash
composer create-project drupal/recommended-project umami
```

2. Edit `composer.json` file and add the following patches under `extra`.

```json
"extra": {
    "patches": {
        "drupal/subrequests": {
            "Get same results on different request": "https://www.drupal.org/files/issues/2019-07-18/change_request_type-63049395-09.patch"
        },
        "drupal/decoupled_router": {
            "Unable to resolve path on node in other language than default": "https://www.drupal.org/files/issues/2021-05-05/3111456-34.patch"
        }
    },
}
```

3. Add dependencies

```bash
composer require drupal/next drupal/jsonapi_menu_items drupal/jsonapi_views 'drupal/jsonapi_resources:^1.0@beta'
```

4. Install Drupal. Make sure you select **Demo: Umami Food Magazine (Experimental)** as the installation profile.

   For a quick installation, you may also use the `quick-start` command:

```bash
php -d memory_limit=256M ./web/core/scripts/drupal quick-start demo_umami
```

4. Enable the following modules:

- Next
- Next JSON:API
- JSON:API Menu Items
- JSON:API Views

---

## Next.js

1. Grab a copy of the Next.js code:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/chapter-three/next-example-umami
```

2. Install dependencies

```
yarn install
```

3. Copy `.env.example` to `.env.local` and update the values to point to your Drupal site:

```
NEXT_PUBLIC_DRUPAL_BASE_URL=http://drupal.test
NEXT_IMAGE_DOMAIN=drupal.test
```

4. Start the development server

```
yarn dev
```

5. Visit `http://localhost:3000` to see the Next.js site.

---

## How to enable authentication

We use the [simple_oauth](https://drupal.org/project/simple_oauth) module for authentication.

1. Visit `/admin/config/people/simple_oauth`.
2. Click on **Generate Keys**.
3. Enter `sites/default/files` for **Directory for the keys** and click **Generate**.
4. Visit `/admin/config/services/consumer` and edit the default client.
5. Enter `weDKc7PD845kq49JfPeYmsZ48e`under **New Secret** and **Save**.
6. Update your `.env.local` with the following:

```diff
# Required
NEXT_PUBLIC_DRUPAL_BASE_URL=http://localhost:8888
NEXT_IMAGE_DOMAIN=localhost

+ # Authentication (Bearer)
+ NEXTAUTH_SECRET=zdauNuBL7lLAHT9zIpxExCThVHSSOfIwouGOhr5cjWQ
+ NEXTAUTH_URL=http://localhost:3000
+ DRUPAL_CLIENT_ID=YOUR_DEFAULT_CLIENT_UUID_HERE
+ DRUPAL_CLIENT_SECRET=weDKc7PD845kq49JfPeYmsZ48e
```

7. Restart the Next.js development server.
8. If you visit `http://localhost:3000/login`, you should now be able to login with the Drupal admin username and password.

---

## How to enable JSON:API Write Operations

1. Visit `/admin/config/services/jsonapi`
2. Under **Allowed Operations**, select **Accept all JSON:API create, read, update, and delete operations.**.
3. **Save configuration**

You can now visit `http://localhost:3000/articles/new` to create a new article.
