www/content/guides/webform.mdx, before:

---
title: Webform
excerpt: Using webforms with Next.js and Drupal
---

There are two ways to handle [Webform](http://drupal.org/project/webform) in Next.js for Drupal.

1. [Client Side](/docs/guides/webform#client-side)
2. [Server Side](/docs/guides/webform#server-side) (API Route)

Both implementations use the [Webform REST](http://drupal.org/project/webform_rest) module.

---

## Demo

See [https://example-webform.next-drupal.org](https://example-webform.next-drupal.org).

---

## Installation

1. Install the Webform REST module: `composer require drupal/webform_rest`
2. Visit `/admin/config/services/rest` and enable the **Webform Submit** resource.
3. Select _POST_ for the **Methods**, _json_ for **Accepted request formats** and _cookie_ for **Authentication providers**
4. **Save configuration**
5. Next, visit `/admin/people/permissions` and give anonymous users the **Access POST on Webform Submit resource** permission.

---

## Client Side

We use the Webform REST module to submit the form values directly to Drupal.

<Callout>

Note: when submitting webform values client-side, the `webform_id` and the Drupal base URL is exposed.

</Callout>

```tsx
export default function ContactPage() {
  async function handleSubmit(event) {
    event.preventDefault()

    const response = await fetch(
      `${process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_DRUPAL_BASE_URL}/webform_rest/submit`,
      {
        method: "POST",
        body: JSON.stringify({
          webform_id: "contact",
          name: event.target.name.value,
          email: event.target.email.value,
        }),
        headers: {
          "Content-Type": "application/json",
        },
      }
    )

    if (response.ok) {
      // Show success.
    }

    // Handle error.
  }

  return (
    <div>
      <form onSubmit={handleSubmit}>
        <p>Implement your form here</p>
        <div>
          <label htmlFor="name">Name</label>
          <input type="text" id="name" name="name" />
        </div>
        <div>
          <label htmlFor="email">Email</label>
          <input type="email" id="email" name="email" />
        </div>
        <button type="submit">Submit</button>
      </form>
    </div>
  )
}
```

---

## Server side

We submit the form values to a custom API route first. The API route then submits the form to Drupal using the Webform REST module.

This is useful if we need to hide client IDs and secrets or our Drupal implementation.

1. Create a `/pages/api/contact` API route to handle our POST request.

```ts title=pages/api/contact.ts
import { NextApiRequest, NextApiResponse } from "next"
import { drupal } from "lib/drupal"

export default async function handler(
  request: NextApiRequest,
  response: NextApiResponse
) {
  try {
    if (request.method === "POST") {
      const url = drupal.buildUrl("/webform_rest/submit")

      // Submit to Drupal.
      const result = await drupal.fetch(url.toString(), {
        method: "POST",
        body: JSON.stringify({
          webform_id: "contact",
          name: request.body.name,
          email: request.body.email,
        }),
        headers: {
          "Content-Type": "application/json",
        },
      })

      if (!result.ok) {
        throw new Error()
      }

      response.status(200).end()
    }
  } catch (error) {
    return response.status(400).json(error.message)
  }
}
```

2. Next, update our contact form to submit to this API route.

```tsx
export default function ContactPage() {
  async function handleSubmit(event) {
    event.preventDefault()

    const response = await fetch(`/api/contact`, {
      method: "POST",
      body: JSON.stringify({
        name: event.target.name.value,
        email: event.target.email.value,
      }),
    })

    if (response.ok) {
      // Show success.
    }

    // Handle error.
  }

  return (
    <div>
      <form onSubmit={handleSubmit}>
        <p>Implement your form here</p>
        <div>
          <label htmlFor="name">Name</label>
          <input type="text" id="name" name="name" />
        </div>
        <div>
          <label htmlFor="email">Email</label>
          <input type="email" id="email" name="email" />
        </div>
        <button type="submit">Submit</button>
      </form>
    </div>
  )
}
```

## Example

See [example-webform](https://github.com/chapter-three/next-drupal/tree/main/examples/example-webform) for a real-life example of building webform with **react-hook-form** and handling validation using **yup**.

Commit message:

docs(www): Update with clarifying link to restui module (#511)

www/content/guides/webform.mdx, after:

---
title: Webform
excerpt: Using webforms with Next.js and Drupal
---

There are two ways to handle [Webform](http://drupal.org/project/webform) in Next.js for Drupal.

1. [Client Side](/docs/guides/webform#client-side)
2. [Server Side](/docs/guides/webform#server-side) (API Route)

Both implementations use the [Webform REST](http://drupal.org/project/webform_rest) module.

---

## Demo

See [https://example-webform.next-drupal.org](https://example-webform.next-drupal.org).

---

## Installation

1. Install the Webform REST module: `composer require drupal/webform_rest`
2. Visit `/admin/config/services/rest` and enable the **Webform Submit** resource. You might want to require and enable the [Rest UI](https://drupal.org/project/restui) module for that route to be there.
3. Select _POST_ for the **Methods**, _json_ for **Accepted request formats** and _cookie_ for **Authentication providers**
4. **Save configuration**
5. Next, visit `/admin/people/permissions` and give anonymous users the **Access POST on Webform Submit resource** permission.

---

## Client Side

We use the Webform REST module to submit the form values directly to Drupal.

<Callout>

Note: when submitting webform values client-side, the `webform_id` and the Drupal base URL is exposed.

</Callout>

```tsx
export default function ContactPage() {
  async function handleSubmit(event) {
    event.preventDefault()

    const response = await fetch(
      `${process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_DRUPAL_BASE_URL}/webform_rest/submit`,
      {
        method: "POST",
        body: JSON.stringify({
          webform_id: "contact",
          name: event.target.name.value,
          email: event.target.email.value,
        }),
        headers: {
          "Content-Type": "application/json",
        },
      }
    )

    if (response.ok) {
      // Show success.
    }

    // Handle error.
  }

  return (
    <div>
      <form onSubmit={handleSubmit}>
        <p>Implement your form here</p>
        <div>
          <label htmlFor="name">Name</label>
          <input type="text" id="name" name="name" />
        </div>
        <div>
          <label htmlFor="email">Email</label>
          <input type="email" id="email" name="email" />
        </div>
        <button type="submit">Submit</button>
      </form>
    </div>
  )
}
```

---

## Server side

We submit the form values to a custom API route first. The API route then submits the form to Drupal using the Webform REST module.

This is useful if we need to hide client IDs and secrets or our Drupal implementation.

1. Create a `/pages/api/contact` API route to handle our POST request.

```ts title=pages/api/contact.ts
import { NextApiRequest, NextApiResponse } from "next"
import { drupal } from "lib/drupal"

export default async function handler(
  request: NextApiRequest,
  response: NextApiResponse
) {
  try {
    if (request.method === "POST") {
      const url = drupal.buildUrl("/webform_rest/submit")

      // Submit to Drupal.
      const result = await drupal.fetch(url.toString(), {
        method: "POST",
        body: JSON.stringify({
          webform_id: "contact",
          name: request.body.name,
          email: request.body.email,
        }),
        headers: {
          "Content-Type": "application/json",
        },
      })

      if (!result.ok) {
        throw new Error()
      }

      response.status(200).end()
    }
  } catch (error) {
    return response.status(400).json(error.message)
  }
}
```

2. Next, update our contact form to submit to this API route.

```tsx
export default function ContactPage() {
  async function handleSubmit(event) {
    event.preventDefault()

    const response = await fetch(`/api/contact`, {
      method: "POST",
      body: JSON.stringify({
        name: event.target.name.value,
        email: event.target.email.value,
      }),
    })

    if (response.ok) {
      // Show success.
    }

    // Handle error.
  }

  return (
    <div>
      <form onSubmit={handleSubmit}>
        <p>Implement your form here</p>
        <div>
          <label htmlFor="name">Name</label>
          <input type="text" id="name" name="name" />
        </div>
        <div>
          <label htmlFor="email">Email</label>
          <input type="email" id="email" name="email" />
        </div>
        <button type="submit">Submit</button>
      </form>
    </div>
  )
}
```

## Example

See [example-webform](https://github.com/chapter-three/next-drupal/tree/main/examples/example-webform) for a real-life example of building webform with **react-hook-form** and handling validation using **yup**.
